# Types

## Static Web Apps
These web apps have restricted content and are not flexible. These apps are generally the pages generated by a server that has little or no interactivity. With no room for personalization, any change occurs on the page only after it is fully loaded.

Advantages of Static Web Applications
- Can be built quickly and are easy to host
- Low development cost
- Search engines can easily index static web apps
- Easy to transfer even on a slow Internet connection

## Dynamic Web Apps
With more technical complexity than static web apps, dynamic web apps help to fetch real-time data based on requests by the user. Building a web app, however, requires developers to follow a streamlined process.

Advantages of Dynamic Web Apps 
- It is possible to fine-tune the user experience
- Can be made highly interactive
- Easy to update
- Professional look
- Quick and easy navigation

## Single-Page Apps (SPAs)
Single-page apps help users to interact with web pages without any hindrance. The amount of data involved is small and, therefore, requests and responses take place efficiently. These are quicker when compared to web apps and perform the logic on the web browser itself instead of the web server.

Advantages of  SPA 
- User-friendly
- Easy to debug
- Reusability
- Easy to implement
- Better caching

## Multi-Page apps (MPAs)
These are web apps with multiple pages. The app reloads and displays a new page from the server according to the user input. Here, the logic resides in the backend server and user requests are sent here and answers are reverted.

Advantages of MPAs  
- SEO-friendly
- Unlimited scalability (you can add any number of pages)

## Portal Web Apps
This is one of the web app types in which different categories/sections can be accessed on the home page. This page may have different details like forums, chats, user registration, emails, etc. These are best suited for businesses and enterprises wanting to create customized interfaces according to their client’s requirements.

Advantages of Portal Web Apps
- Easy to integrate
- Easy to interact
-  Omnichannel presence
- Easier customer retention

## Animated Web Apps
Animated web apps are sometimes created with FLASH technology. You can display content by using animated effects. Highly creative UI/UX designers can use animations to represent ideas that are difficult to display/convey otherwise in different web apps.

## Rich Internet apps (RIAs)
Rich Internet apps are types of web apps that possess many functions of desktop apps but are different. They are used to resolve browser restrictions, and, for this, they depend on client-side plugins like Shockwave, Flash, etc.

Benefits of RIAs
- Quick mobile access
- Improved data visualization
- Integration across different systems
- Control item synchronization

## Progressive Web Apps (PWAs)/Native
PWAs are websites that look like mobile applications. Users can access any information and all of the features of the web app with the help of mobile browsers. Some experts opine that PWAs are modified versions of SPAs, though they are different theoretically.

PWAs - Advantages
- Need not be downloaded from app stores
- Offline connectivity
- Access platform-specific features
- Improved performance
- No updates required


# Source
1. [SayOne: Explore the 10 Different Types of Web Applications & Their Uses](https://www.sayonetech.com/blog/10-types-web-applications-their-uses/) [eng]